# Saving_Lifes_with_ML_-_OBDII

This  project  details  a  possible  solution  for  a  serious  problem  around  the  world  that  can  potentiallyresolve or at least reduce the number of deaths due to Pediatric Vehicular Heatstroke (PVH). The proposedsystem uses a microcontroller-based platform, computer vision, wireless communication notification, andthe integrated second-generation on-board diagnostic port (OBD-II), totaling a cost less than $450.00 U.S.dollars.

To  limit  the  scope,  the  initial  phase  of  the  project  is  to  create  a  system  to  perform  real-time  objectdetection  limited  to  identifying  pets  (dogs  and  cats)  left  unattended  in  a  vehicle  setting.  Upon  positivedetection  of  an  unattended  pet  in  the  vehicle,  the  system  transmits  an  email  and  short  message  service(SMS)  via  Wi-Fi  to  the  pet  owner’s  cellular  phone  and  email  address.  Also,  based  on  the  currentinterior  temperature,  corrective  action  is  taken  via  the  vehicle’s  climate  control  system.  In  the  currentimplementation,  the  system  can  successfully  adjust  the  vehicle’s  ambient  temperature  if  its  measured  tobe above the appropriate temperature threshold for the pet. The system’s main platform, Raspberry Pi 4B,is utilized since it was the less expensive, yet powerful microcontroller running on programming language,python.  Also,  provided  most  of  the  features  needed  throughout  the  project  such  as  USB  3.0,  Micro  SDCard  Slot,  integrated  2.4/5  GHz  Wireless  Module,  a  2-lane  Camera  Serial  Interface  (CSI)  camera  port,40 Pin general-purpose input/output (GPIO) header, and USB-C Power Port (5V/3A). Resulting in easyintegration of other components such as the Intel Movidius Neural Compute Stick II, DTH22 temperatureand humidity sensor, camera, and wireless communication. For the computer vision portion of the system,the team concluded to use Tiny-YOLOv3 real-time object detection model due to the fact that the modelcan be deployed on an inexpensive microcontroller without a graphics card and limited memory. Lastly, inorder to control the vehicle’s climate control system, the approach of using a PiCAN module was chosensince it is a direct attachment to the GPIO header of the microcontroller.

In  terms  of  improvements,  the  project  could  be  expanded  to  detect  children  as  well.  Also,  instead  ofusing  an  average  camera  for  object  detection,  a  360◦camera  can  be  considered  since  it  can  cover  morearea at once.

Project Developers:
Daniel Jacuinde-Alvarez (CSU, Fresno) and James Dols (CSU, Fresno)
